Covenant there's a little bit much to deal with all in one service
So we're looking at the first five verses in Hebrews chapter number eight this morning. I certainly enjoy the book of Hebrews
It's been a tremendous blessing in my life. And of course in this calendar year on Sunday mornings preaching through the book
I know we haven't done it consistently every single week
But we have made our way through the first seven chapters and now embark on chapter number eight this morning
Obviously our theme for the year looking unto Jesus and what a great
Encouragement that we receive in Hebrews chapter number 12, of course
we would understand some of that which is given in those first few verses of Hebrews chapter number 12 where
the believers are encouraged to
Run their race and in so doing to keep their eyes on our wonderful Savior
and the reality is that we have a wonderful Savior and
We understand that he lives that he rules that he reigns and we understand as we look at the book of Hebrews
And we look at all that's taking place really in the first 10 chapters
And then we get into some things in chapter 11 the Hall of Faith chapters
We often refer to it as but as we make our way through the book of Hebrews and come to that 12th chapter
why is it that the believers would be encouraged to run their race and keep their eyes on Jesus because
He is superior he is better and
we've studied through these first seven chapters and we have discussed the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ is
Superior to what to everything and everyone. Amen
obviously the book of Hebrews deals with some things specifically and we've gone through those starting with the
Prophets and the angels and Moses and Abraham and all of that. We're in the midst of the section of
The book of Hebrews where he's dealing with the superiority of the priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ
Of course the believers that are being written to here in the book of Hebrews. They would have had a level of
Understanding of the Levitical we've often referred to it as the Aaronic priesthood
They would have had an understanding of what the roles and responsibilities were
of the priest in fact at the particular time of the writing the temple still stood and the
Offerings were still being made and these Jewish believers that were saved
That that had come out of that
Judaism now there's this thought of returning to Judaism and they're seeing all of those things and we find that the author is giving us
really in chapters 5 through 10
the truth of the superiority of Christ priesthood and
We understand as we've looked through the passages of Scripture that there are many references back to the Old Testament with regard to
several of those things that would have been
messianic prophecies and how they're fulfilled in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ and we understand that for the
Jewish believers their attachment and their understanding to Moses to Abraham to the
priesthood and all of those things they would have been keenly aware of the the truths that are being presented and then the
author so
Adequately shows that our Savior is superior and what a blessing that is
Of course we think about as we enter into the eighth chapter notice in verse number one
The Bible says this now the things which we have spoken. This is the sum
We have such an high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens a
minister of the sanctuary and of the true
Tabernacle, which the Lord pitched and not man
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices
Wherefore it is of necessity
That this man have somewhat also to offer who is this man
that's the Lord Jesus Christ that has been referred to verse number four for if he
Jesus were on earth
He should not be a priest seeing that there are priests that offer gifts
according to the law who serve under the unto excuse me the example and shadow of
heavenly things as
Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle
First see saith he that thou make all things according to the pattern showed to thee in
the Mount
we find that the writer of
Hebrews now goes all the way back to the last several chapters of the book of Exodus and really we find in an Exodus
2829 and 39
The reference would be given to the the the priest details concerning the priest garments and their
consecration we understand that the service of the tabernacle of the priest is
outlined throughout those last several chapters of the book of Exodus as God is giving Moses the
instruction for the construction of the tabernacle and now we find that the writer is now
Referring to that tabernacle
we understand the tabernacle was replaced with the temple and we understand that during the reign of Solomon king of Israel that he
Built that temple now during the reign of Saul and the reign of David. There was no temple
there was still the tabernacle the Ark of the Covenant that would be in the Holy of Holies and we understand all of those things
that had
transpired for all of that generation and for many
Generations you can read in the Old Testament you can see the
Responsibilities and you can understand the truth with regard to the tabernacle. Then the temple is built
It was in the heart of David to do so God said no
You're not permitted to do it, but your son will be responsible for building a temple
We understand that David prepared greatly
and all of the things that he did to have all of the
Materials prepared and ready for Solomon and what a glorious occasion
It was when the nation of Israel under the leadership of Solomon completed the temple
And then of course they had worship there at the temple that temple would be destroyed
We understand that they come back if you study and read the books of Ezra and Nehemiah and when that
That remnant returned after the Babylonian captivity. What did they do? Not only did they repair the wall, but they restored
Sacrifice there at the temple when we see those things taking place that temple as well was destroyed. We see there's a new temple
That's here during the time of Jesus and during this time in which the book of Hebrews is written
Remember it was Jesus back
You don't need to turn there
but in the book of John
When he was speaking about the fact that he would go to the cross of Calvary and that he would rise from the dead
He said this in verse 19 of John 2 he said destroy this temple and in three days
I will raise it up
Then said the Jews forty and six years was this temple in building and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
But he Jesus spake of the temple of his body
We spent a number of weeks a few years ago on Wednesday evening
Studying all of the details with regard to the tabernacle and as we studied the tabernacle
We understood that the tabernacle was a picture
It was a type and how that every detail within the tabernacle in some way is pointing to Jesus Christ
We'll deal with some of those things as we go through here in Hebrews 8 and then again in Hebrews 9 as some of those things
Are dealt with but we rejoice in the fact that as we come to this passage of Scripture
You notice in verse number 1 of chapter 8. It's where I've adopted the title this morning
He says we have such and high priest
I've simply titled we have and high priest see the reality is that these people the Jewish believers
They understood what it was to have a priest and they understood the responsibility of the priest
In fact the priests they daily ministered we read of that in Hebrews chapter number 10
We read of it all throughout the Old Testament all of that
Sacrificial system and everything that was being done and how that they daily ministered and they were constantly
They're making those sacrifices when you think specifically about the tabernacle. There was only one entrance to the tabernacle
And in that single entrance we saw we find
That it would help us to understand the New Testament truth that there's only one way to heaven
There's only one way that's Jesus Christ. I am the way the truth and the life
There's only one entrance into the tabernacle and when you entered through that gate you find yourself in the outer court
quote unquote as we refer to it
But the very first thing that you come to is the brazen altar and in the brazen altar
You would find that there were sacrifices that were made
Showing us again that the way to God has to be through a sacrifice
It's required. And so of course Jesus Christ is that perfect sacrifice?
We'll get into this morning as we study these first five verses of Hebrews chapter number eight
But we understand this morning that our Savior lives
They understand what it was to have a priest to have a high priest and really the responsibility
They think about the Day of Atonement once a year when not only were there
Sacrifices daily at the brazen altar
But on one day a year the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies
Where it was that God's presence dwelt with the nation of Israel and they could only enter in once per year
And when they entered they better have blood
Amen
They entered in and they did the the the service that they were responsible. They fulfilled
their responsibilities. At the end of chapter number seven, you find that in
verse number 27, it talks about the fact that they had to first offer for their
own sins. I'm thankful that Jesus, as the Son of God, He was sinless, He was just,
and the just died for the unjust. And we understand as we look at the
passage of Scripture that these priests, as they would understand the role and
responsibility these Jewish people so connected to this religious system that
now they're reminded we have in high priest and his name is Jesus. We have a
wonderful Savior. I think about that wonderful song and I know that it's
probably one of my favorite songs. It's number 184 in our hymnal.
Hallelujah, what a Savior. And the song says this, man of sorrows what a name for
the Son of God who came. Ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah, what a Savior.
Bearing shame and scoffing rude. In my place condemned He stood. Sealed my
pardon with His blood. Hallelujah, what a Savior. Guilty, vile, helpless we. Spotless
Lamb of God was He. Full atonement can it be. Hallelujah, what a Savior. Lifted up
was He to die. It is finished was His cry. Now in heaven exalted high. Hallelujah,
what a Savior. When He comes, our glorious King, all His ransomed home to bring. Then
anew this song will sing. Hallelujah, what a Savior. We have a wonderful Savior. He
is our high priest. And these believers needed to be reminded of this truth. I
mentioned that really the truth of the superiority of Christ's
priesthood is really contained in chapters 5 through 10 of the book of
Hebrews, but we find that even before really digging into the subject in its
entirety, that you begin to see references in chapters 2, 3, and 4 with
regard to the high priest and that we have that Jesus is our high priest.
Notice in chapter number 2, if you turn back just a few pages there, notice in
verses 17 and 18 the Bible says, wherefore in all things that behooved
him to be made like unto his brethren that he might be a merciful and faithful
high priest in things pertaining to God to make reconciliation for the sins of
the people. For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to
succor them that are tempted. In chapter number 3, in verse number 1, it says
wherefore holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle
and high priest of our profession Christ Jesus. In chapter number 4, in verse
number 14, the Bible says, seeing then that we have a great high priest that
is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession
for we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of
our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are yet without sin.
We get into chapter number 5 and we find that there's a reference in the
beginning of this portion with regard to the ministry and role of the priest
and the the understanding that the Jewish believers would have of their
that role and responsibility, and the writer of Hebrews presents the Lord
Jesus Christ as being our great high priest, and he lives, and we can rejoice
in that truth. Notice if you look back in Hebrews chapter number 8, just two
thoughts this morning. Number one, our high priest ministers in a better place.
He ministers in a better place. Notice in verse number 1 and 2 of our text of
Scripture, the Bible says, now of the things which we have spoken, this is the
sum, we have such an high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of
the majesty in the heavens, a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle
which the Lord pitched and not man. Notice as we kind of pick apart these
verses of Scripture, as we would consider the fact that our high priest
ministers in a better place, we find that it tells us in verse number 1 that he
is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. Isn't that
wonderful? And it's interesting as you think about the truth of the Word of God
where the Bible tells us that our Savior, that He ascended to heaven, we
understand that He went to the cross of Calvary and we'll deal with that in just
a few moments, but we understand that He did not stay in that tomb. He rose in
victory. We understand that He ascended to heaven and we find that the writer of
Hebrews is saying to these Jewish believers that we have a high priest and
He's better and I want you to understand that He ministers in a better place. It's
not just this temple that you can see with your eyes, it's not this
temporal location, but He serves, He ministers, He's in, He's at the right
hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens. Notice verse number 2. The Bible
refers to it as being the true tabernacle. I like that phraseology. He
then says this, which the Lord pitched and not man. Now if you have a level of
understanding of the Bible and some of the things that I've already said by way
of introduction, you'd understand that He's talking about the tabernacle that
was pitched by Moses. And you'd understand that as we look at the
passage of Scripture here and these Jewish believers, that they would hear as
they read this book that this high priest that we have, Jesus, the Son of
God, He's ministering at a better place and the writer says it's the true
tabernacle. It's not pitched by man, it was pitched by the Lord. If you run all
the way back to the book of Exodus, and for sake of time we won't do that, we
find that the Old Testament tabernacle served as a shadow and it was made after
the pattern that was given to Moses. We understand that even as you look at
verse number 5 here in Hebrews 8, the Bible says, who serve unto the example
and shadow of heavenly things. Notice what the Bible continues to say here, as
Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle. For see,
saith he, that's God, that thou, that's Moses, make all things according to the
pattern showed to thee in the mount. You might want to jot down in your notes
Exodus chapter 25 in verse number 40, Exodus chapter 26 in verse number 30. In
both of those passages of Scripture or verses of Scripture, we find that God
gives the instruction to Moses and God specifically tells Moses, you have to
follow the pattern, you can't deviate. Why? Because of what it typified, because of
the type, because of what the tabernacle was a type of, and we understand in
all of the offerings and all of those things how that they were a picture of
Messiah. We think about the children of Israel as they first left from Egypt and
they were delivered with a mighty hand, that tenth plague, the death of the
firstborn, it was the Passover. And remember, they were to observe the
Passover annually, not only to remind them of the fact that they were delivered
from Egyptian bondage, but to remind them that there was a Savior that would one
day come that would make the ultimate sacrifice. We find that here, as we would
consider the Old Testament pattern in this tabernacle, we find that yes, it was
Moses that God instructed and that pitched that tabernacle. If you read
through the latter parts of the book of Exodus, you come to read all of these
details and all of the specifics that are given with regard to the materials
and the dimensions. I mean, God is a God of order. God didn't just say to Moses,
hey, go make a tabernacle. What is that? Like, what do you want me to do? No, God
was extremely precise in the instruction that he gave because of the truth that
it was presenting and really revealing, not only pointing to Jesus Christ, but
revealing the plan of redemption. We find that as we look at the tabernacle and we
understand all that had transpired, the instruction that was given, that God
raised up some men, Bezalel in particular, was one of those that was given this
ability to craft and to make these things, these pieces of furniture that
would find themselves in the tabernacle, and how that instruction was given. And
you come to chapter number 40 of the book of Exodus and you find that the
Bible records for us in that passage of Scripture how that they reared up the
tabernacle for the very first time. But it's interesting, before they ever reared
up for the first time, you read in that passage of Scripture how that the Lord
gave specific instruction and how that Moses and the children of Israel obeyed
and did as they were commanded. They reared up that tabernacle and the glory
of God filled that place. And here's what the writer is saying.
That was just a picture, that was just a shadow, that was just a type,
but our High Priest, he serves, he ministers in the true tabernacle,
the one that was not pitched by man, but the one that he himself pitched,
the one in which he showed to Moses to follow the pattern.
It's an amazing truth.
We find that these Jewish believers that were struggling with
the thought of Judaism and returning to it,
and they see all of these things that are taking place at the temple,
we find that they're confronted,
no, no, we have a High Priest.
He is the great High Priest.
He's Jesus, and he serves, he ministers in a better place.
We find that at the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
that he conquered sin, death, and the grave.
We're mindful that even before his resurrection,
when you consider the time in which he was on the cross of Calvary,
and he said, it is finished.
Something amazing took place.
The veil of the temple was rent in twain.
Amen?
From the top to the bottom.
See, remember, as we would look at the shadow of the Old Testament,
we think about the tabernacle, and then even into the temple,
and you would think about that holy of holies.
Yes, there was the outer court that had the brazen altar,
and had the laver, but you would come to the holy place,
that there you would find that much of the ministry would take place,
but then that was separated from the holy of holies
that could only be entered on that one day a year, the day of atonement.
And you find that that veil that separated the holy place from the holy of holies,
that it was rent in twain, showing that now access was available.
We'll deal with that as we get into chapters 9 and 10 in more detail,
but we understand that when Jesus died on the cross of Calvary,
He paid, He was our substitute, and then He rose from the dead.
Acts 1 as well as Luke 24 record for us the ascension of Jesus Christ,
and the Bible tells us in verse 2 that He is a minister of the sanctuary
and of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, and not man.
We've read some of these verses already,
but you notice as I repeat in Hebrews 4 and verse number 14,
the Bible says, seeing then that we have a great high priest
that is passed into the heavens.
Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
See, the high priest, he could only enter into the holy of holies.
He could only pass through that veil, but Jesus entered into heaven.
We find that in chapter number 7, we studied this a few weeks ago,
but in verse number 25, the Bible says at the end of that verse,
seeing He ever liveth to make intercession for them.
I'm so thankful that our Savior lives.
Hallelujah, what a Savior.
And He is our high priest.
Notice that as we look at the passage of Scripture,
not only does our high priest minister in a better place,
but number two, our high priest presented a better offering.
He presented a better offering.
As we look at the passage, we come to verse number 3 in Hebrews chapter number 8,
and the Bible says this, for every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices.
He dealt with this back in chapter number 5,
when he talked about the fact that they were to bring those sacrifices.
Notice in verse number 1 of Hebrews 5, the Bible says,
for every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God,
that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
In chapter 7, in verse number 27,
the Bible talks about how they would first offer for their own sins, then for the people's.
We find that as we go through the book of Hebrews and you enter into the 10th chapter,
you find that the Bible would say this about these offerings.
In verse number 1, it says, for the law having a shadow of good things to come,
and not the very image of the things,
can never with those sacrifices which they offered,
notice this, year by year continually, make the comers thereunto perfect.
Notice it says, in verse number 3, but in those sacrifices,
there is a remembrance again made of sins every year,
for it is not possible the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he sayeth,
sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared for me.
Notice in verse number 11, the Bible says,
and every priest standeth daily ministering and offering,
notice what it says, oftentimes the same sacrifices which can never take away sins.
Why? Because it was pointing to Messiah who would one day come.
As a reminder, that Jesus, the Messiah, all the way back in Genesis chapter 3,
when you read of that prophecy that is given after the fall of man,
we understand that God and His plan, as we'd read in Ephesians,
as we'd understand as Peter reveals to us in 1 Peter,
that our Savior Jesus, the Son of God,
that He was the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world.
That Jesus was the one that would come,
and all of those offerings and all those sacrifices that these priests would offer,
they were pointing to Messiah.
And we find that here in verse number 3,
this was the role and responsibility of these priests.
Can I tell you, it was a busy job.
It was a job that, if you look at the tabernacle and you look at all of the pieces of furniture,
you won't find a chair.
There was never time to sit down.
There were constantly these offerings that were being made,
and all of this stuff that was happening, and daily they were doing these things,
they were fulfilling their responsibility.
And so we find that it was the responsibility of the priest,
of the high priest here as it's mentioned, to offer gifts and sacrifices,
and therefore the logical conclusion would be this,
if that's what the high priest, if that's what the role is of these priests,
then certainly it would be necessary for Jesus,
if He's our high priest, that He too would have an offering to present.
Amen?
It has to be.
You notice in verse number 3, notice the entirety of the verse,
for every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices.
Wherefore, it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer.
It wasn't just that it would be nice if He had an offering,
it was necessary, it was absolutely essential that He would have an offering to present.
It's interesting that as you go into verse number 4,
that the Bible reminds us of the truth that had been previously shared in chapter number 7,
and the Bible says this,
for if He were on earth, He should not be a priest,
seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law.
Why couldn't He be a priest on earth?
He was of the tribe of Judah, not of the tribe of Levi, right?
We looked at that in chapter number 7,
when the Bible tells us in verse number 14,
for it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah,
of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
When you were a priest in the Old Testament, it wasn't that you volunteered to be a priest.
You were in the tribe of Levi.
That was the tribe that had been ordained and selected by God,
and we find that we speak of the Aaronic or the Levitical priesthood,
and that was understood, but Jesus, He was from the tribe of Judah.
If you're from the tribe of Judah, you could not be a priest.
Kings came from the line of Judah.
And we find that if you're a king, you could not be a priest.
If you're a priest, you could not be a king.
We find that Jesus is prophet, priest, and king.
We find that there was example, as we find in the Old Testament,
there were times in which the priests, they were vile.
They were wicked. They didn't do as they should do.
There was a particular occasion in which Uzziah thought that he, as king,
would go in and offer some incense.
It was a bad decision.
He became a leper.
Jesus, if He were on earth, notice what it says in verse number four,
if He were on earth, He should not be a priest,
seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law.
But remember, in chapter number five,
and then all of chapter number seven,
the Bible presented the truth that the Messianic prophecy from the book of Psalms,
that thou art a priest after the order of Melchizedek,
is fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ.
So He is able to make an offering. Why?
Not because He's of the tribe of Levi, but because He's after the order of Melchizedek.
And the offering that He presents is a better offering. Why?
Because He offered Himself. He offered Himself.
Notice, the Bible tells us it was necessary,
it says it is of necessity,
that this man have somewhat also to offer.
Notice in chapter number seven, in verse number 27,
the Bible says,
who needeth not daily as those high priests.
And so the contrast in the beginning of this verse is dealing with
those offerings and sacrifices of the Aaronic Levitical priesthood it says who
needeth not daily as those high priests to offer up sacrifice first for his own
sins and then for the people's notice the latter part for this he Christ did
once when he offered up himself he offered himself in chapter 9 look at a
few verses here in this great chapter in verse number 14 let me read verses 11
through 14 the Bible says in verse number 11 but Christ being come in high
priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not
made with hands that is to say not of this building neither by the blood of
goats and calves but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place
having obtained eternal redemption for us for if the blood of bulls and of
goats and the ashes on a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctified through
the purifying of the flesh how much more shall the blood of Christ who through
the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God purge your
conscience from dead works to serve the living God in verse 26 the Bible says
for then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world but
now once in the end of the world have he appeared to put away sin by the
sacrifice of himself verse 28 so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of
many and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without
sin unto salvation I read for you verse number 11 of chapter 10 about the
priest standing and ministering daily those same sacrifices which could never
take away sin but you look at verse number 12 and the Bible says but this
man speaking of our high priest the Lord Jesus Christ this man after he'd offered
one sacrifice for sins notice what it says forever sat down on the right hand
of God we speak about the high priest being our high priest we have an high
priest the Lord Jesus Christ he ministers in a better place but we find
that he presented a better offering he offered himself it's interesting as we
think about the offering of himself and how that the Lord Jesus Christ
willingly went to the cross of Calvary he says to his disciples in John chapter
number 10 in that dialogue about him being the Good Shepherd and he talks
about the fact that the Good Shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep in
John chapter number 10 it's interesting that he not only tells us that he lays
down his life for the sheep but he tells about the truth of the resurrection in
chapter 10 in verse 17 it says therefore doth my father love me because I lay
down my life that I might take it again no man taketh it from me but I lay it
down of myself I have power to lay it down and I have power to take it again
this commandment have I received of my father I'm so thankful that the Lord
Jesus Christ our high priest our great high priest that he ministers in a
better place but he presented a better offering and that he offered himself
there's a perfect offering we often speak about the substitutionary atonement
the fact that Jesus the Son of God that he hung in our place he was our
substitute why did he have to die because sin had to be paid for the Bible
tells us in Genesis chapter number three about sin entering into the world the
Bible tells us in Romans chapter number five as it references that account of
Adam and Eve in the garden in Genesis chapter number three that that's how sin
entered and then sin is passed on to all men the the penalty death is passed on
to all men for that all have sinned for the wages of death is or for the wages
of sin is death and we understand that Jesus Christ God in flesh he went
willingly to that old rugged cross he suffered great torment as you read
through the gospel accounts and you read of all that he experienced and all that
he dealt with we understand that he did that demonstrating to us his love he
died for the sins of the world he died so that man could be reconciled to God
see we were at enmity with God we were separated from God why because of our
sin the Bible tells us that God hath made him Jesus to be sin for us who knew
no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him it's not as
Paul deals with in the book of Philippians it's not our own righteousness
it's the righteousness of Christ that is imputed upon our account see he's the
substitute he's we speak about the substitutionary atonement we understand
that it satisfied the demands of death it satisfied the price for sin the
precious sinless blood of Christ was the payment that was necessary and we find
the Bible tells us as we read that passage of Scripture in Hebrews 9 in
verse number 12 that what did that what did that sinless precious blood get
eternal redemption for us Peter says that we're not redeemed with corruptible
things he speaks about gold and silver he says no we're not redeemed with those
things we're redeemed with the precious blood of Christ and so we think about
this better offering how that Jesus Christ God in flesh that he presented
himself that he offered himself but then he rose victoriously conquering sin
death and the grave we find that he continueth ever in Hebrews 7 in verse
number 24 the Bible says but this man speaking again of Jesus because he
continueth ever hath an unchangeable priesthood see what happened the
priest in the Old Testament the Aaronic priesthood man they died right part of
the whole study as you look as the instruction is given to Moses and then
to Joshua we see that it's an implement it in the life and ministry of Joshua
with the cities of refuge they had to stay there until the death of the high
priest and then they could leave our high priest the Lord Jesus Christ he
continueth ever why because he conquered sin death and the grave we find that
Paul would make this declaration in the passage of Scripture that we often refer
to as the passage that is the the greatest with regard to the resurrection
and the fact that because Jesus rose from the dead that we to have the hope
the expectation of rising from the dead why because he's the firstfruits and
Paul would finish that passage by saying Oh death where is thy sting Oh great
where is thy victory the sting of death is sin the strength of sin is the law
but thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus
Christ see as we think about the truth of Hebrews chapter 5 and I understand
that we're living nearly you know 1950 years or whatever it is after the
writing of the book of Hebrews and I understand that we're living in a
different culture in a different time and all of those things and we don't see
a temple we didn't come out of Judaism we weren't practicing those things but I
want you to think about these Jewish believers being reminded and confronted
with the truth that you have an high priest don't look at those things that
are temporal that were a picture that were a shadow that followed a pattern
you have a high priest his name is Jesus and he lives and he ministers in a
better place and he presented a better offering and for us today as New
Testament believers in the year 2020 we find that we're in this place that we
say we serve a risen Savior we ought to live like it amen we ought to act like
it as we live as we go through this life we understand I serve a risen Savior I
am NOT serving some dead religion I'm not caught in some dead orthodoxy no I
serve the King of Kings and Lord of Lords many songs have been written by
people that have been overwhelmed with the thought of our Savior living in the
impact that that ought to have on us as the children of God listen our God rules
and reigns he's still on his throne amen we have a message to tell just as the
writer of Hebrews says to these believers and of course being preserved
for all of these years in the canon of Scripture we have an high priest what
should I think about this truth that is given in these first five verses of
course I mentioned already by way of introduction that as we finish chapter
number eight next week we'll deal with the new covenant that is revealed in
verses 6 through 13 really going back to Jeremiah we'll get into all of that next
week as we finish chapter number eight but we understand that just has as it
has been
the case through the book of Hebrews, we find that the the author of Hebrews will
share some truth and then further discuss and expound on that truth in a
following chapter. In these two truths that are presented in the first few
verses of chapter number eight, that our high priest ministers in a better place
and that our high priest presented a better offering, we find that they're
expounded upon in Hebrews 9 and Hebrews 10, and we'll enjoy studying those
chapters. What great truth is given to us. I've picked some of those verses to
share with you this morning. We'll dig into them entirely as we move through
the book of Hebrews, but I want you to go to 1st John chapter 2 as we conclude
this morning. In 1st John chapter number 2, the book of 1st John is written to
believers. The book of 1st John is dealing with the fellowship that we have
with Christ, and what a joy to know that we can have fellowship with our God. Why?
Because of what Jesus did in reconciling, right? He's the mediator. He is the one
that reconciles, and we come to the book of 1st John and we see this truth with
regard to fellowship and so on and so forth, and as we think about the truth of
Hebrews chapter number 5 that we have in high priest that ministers in a better
place, that presented a better offering, I come to chapter number 2 of 1st John
and I look at the first two verses and the Bible says this,
My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. Now, we're
supposed to sin less, amen? I mean, we're not going to ever reach a place of
sinless perfection here upon this earth. I know there are some that propagated
that idea years ago and some that still would hold to that truth, but the Bible
reveals to us that we're not going to reach a place of
sinless perfection here upon earth, but I'm thankful that one day when I meet my
Savior face-to-face, when I'm in heaven, I will have no more sin, amen? But as we
grow in our walk with the Lord, as we walk with Christ, as we walk in the
Spirit so that we do not fulfill the lust of the flesh, we ought to sin less,
amen? But we find that it says in verse number 1, and if any man sin, aren't you
thankful for that? Because have you sinned since you've been saved? If you
say no, you're lying, amen? And I just caught you in a sin, amen? Right? So if
any man sin, notice we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the
righteous, and He, Jesus Christ, our advocate, He is the propitiation for our
sins. Now, we look at that word, we don't use it very often, it's a Bible word
obviously, it speaks about the truth of being the satisfaction, but also the
mercy seat really is the idea, and we think about the the Ark of the Covenant,
really the Ark of the Covenant is the Ark of Judgment without the mercy seat.
When that mercy seat is placed upon that Ark, we find it becomes a mercy, an altar
of mercy, and we find here the Bible says that He, Jesus Christ, not only is
He our advocate with the Father, but He is the propitiation, notice, for our sins,
and not for our sins only, but also for the sins of the whole world. This morning,
if you're a believer, if you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal
Savior, if you would say today that there was a time in my life when I understood
that I was a sinner, because of my sin there was a price that had to be paid,
and that price is death, the penalty of sin, the wage of sin is death, but I
understood that Jesus Christ, God in flesh, He loved me, and He died for me,
and He offered me a gift, and that gift is eternal life through Jesus Christ, our
Lord. The Bible says that if any man, if we call upon the name of the Lord,
whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You say, pastor,
I've called upon the name of the Lord, I've been saved, can I encourage you this
morning? You're having a high priest, and he's ministering in a better place, he's
presented a better offering, he ever liveth to make intercession for us, he
is our advocate, he is the propitiation for our sins, but not for ours only, but
also the sins of the whole world. Maybe this morning there's someone that's
never trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. You say, the honest
truth this morning is that if I were to die today I have no idea what would
happen. I'd like to think I'd go to heaven, most people don't like to think
about going to hell, amen? I'd like to think, I hope so, I think so, maybe, can I
tell you that you can know for sure that heaven is your home? It's not because of
anything you've done, it's because of the offering that Christ made when he
offered himself, because he said, it is finished. If there's nothing you can do,
the Bible says, for by grace are you saved through faith, amen? Not of works lest
any man should boast. We understand that Jesus paid it all, that he made the way
for mankind to be redeemed, and this morning maybe someone here locally, maybe
somebody that's watching live stream, you've never been born again. Can I tell
you that the Lord Jesus Christ, he offered himself to pay for your sin, so
you could have eternal life. You say, well that's nice, but I'm gonna keep trying my
way, I'm gonna keep trying, just try to be a good person, I'm gonna try to do
this, and I'm gonna just try to turn a new leaf. Can I tell you on the authority
of the Word of God, there's only one way to get to heaven, and it's through the
Lord Jesus Christ. The blood that he shed on the cross of Calvary, the only payment
that is valid for your sin, and for my sin, is the blood of Jesus Christ. Nothing
else is accepted, nothing, amen? Peter, as he preached, and he in Acts chapter
before, I almost said Hebrews, he wasn't preaching in Hebrews, amen? In Acts
chapter number four, there's a great miracle that was recorded in Acts chapter
number three. That man at the gate, beautiful, he was healed. We find that
Peter is preaching in Acts chapter number four, he said, if you're asking by what
name this man has been made whole, he helps them understand, listen, it's not in the
name of Peter or John, it's the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. And then he
says this, and there is no other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we
must be saved. What was Peter saying? Well, he was saying the same thing that Jesus
said in John 14. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the
Father but by me. This morning, if you're saved, would you rejoice that you have a
high priest, that he lives? And oh, that God would help us to live our lives
daily with the understanding that we serve a risen Savior, that he lives. One
day I'm gonna be with him, see him face to face, isn't that wonderful? That song
that I shared the words to, the hallelujah, what a Savior, that verse that
talks about when he comes, our glorious King, he's coming. No man knoweth the
day nor hour, but I'd like to say that it's getting close. And I say that on the
authority of the Word of God, when James recorded for us that the coming of the
Lord draweth nigh. Amen? If you've not been saved, could I offer to you this
morning the greatest gift that has ever been given? It's not a gift that I could
offer you personally, it's a gift that has been offered by the Lord Jesus
Christ, and it's the gift of God which is eternal life through Jesus Christ our
Lord. Don't leave here this morning, don't tune off from live stream without
knowing for sure that heaven is your home. Because our high priest offered a
better, he presented a better offering when he offered himself. Let's pray.
Father, we love you this morning, we thank you for loving us, we thank you for thy
Word and for the truth contained therein. We thank you that we have an high
priest, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. We thank you that he entered into the
heavens, the true tabernacle. We thank you that he made an offering that was far
superior to any offering that was made by any priest when he offered himself,
the just for the unjust. We're so thankful for the precious blood of Christ, we're
thankful that he was buried in a borrowed tomb and rose in victory on the
third day. Father, I pray you'd help us to, those of us that are saved, been born
again, help us to live with that understanding that we serve a risen
Savior. Father, I pray that if there's one that's not sure of heaven, it's our
prayer this morning that the Holy Spirit of God would do the work that was outlined in
John 16. Oh Holy Spirit, I pray that you would convict of sin, of Christ's
righteousness, and of judgment to come. I pray that not one person would leave
this place, not that one person would...
Log off of Livestream without knowing for sure that heaven is their home.
Thank you for being our wonderful Savior.
Indeed, we echo the words of the songwriter, hallelujah, what a Savior.
I pray that you'd move in our midst, that you'd have your will and way.
We'll thank you for it.
In Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, no one's looking around.
It is our practice to have a time of invitation at the end of each of our sermons.